Rewrite Scaling Up IV (#800)
grammyjs/website: site/docs/advanced/flood.md

# Scaling Up IV: Flood Limits

> Telegram restricts how many messages your bot can send per second.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Telegram restricts how many messages your bot can send each second.
```

This means that any API request you perform could error with status code 429 (Too Many Requests) and a `retry_after` header as specified [here](https://core.telegram.org/bots/api#responseparameters).
This can happen anytime.

> There is only one correct way to handle such errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is only one correct way to handle that error:
```

Author: I don't like that it uses singular

Reviewer: There’s only one error in the scope of flood waits: flood wait error. I also don’t like that it is plural.

If you don’t feel like accepting that one, how about this:

```suggestion
There is only one correct way to handle these situations:
```

Author: Love it

1. Wait for the specified number of seconds.
2. Retry the request.

> Fortunetaly, there is a [plugin](../plugins/auto-retry.md) for that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fortunately, there is a [plugin](../plugins/auto-retry.md) for that.
```

Author: Ouch, thanks dude

That plugin is [very simple](https://github.com/grammyjs/auto-retry/blob/main/src/index.ts).
It literally just sleeps and retries.
However, using it has a major implication: **any request can be slow**.
This means that when you run your bot on webhooks, [you technically have to use a queue](../guide/deployment-types.md#ending-webhook-requests-in-time) no matter what you do, or else you need to configure the auto-retry plugin in a way that it never takes a lot of time---but then your bot may skip some requests.

## What the Exact Limits Are

They are unspecified.

> Deal with it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to deal with them.
```

Author: That's not what I meant. I am referring to the meme.

We have some good ideas about how many requests you can perform, but the exact numbers are unknown.

> (If someone tells you the limits, they are either not very well informed, or lying.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(If someone tells you the limits, they are either lying or not well-informed.)
```

The limits are not simply hard thresholds that you can find out by experimenting with the Bot API.
Rather, they are flexible constraints that change based on your bot's exact request payloads, the number of users, and other factors, not all of which are known.

Here are a few misconceptions and false assumptions about rate limits.

- My bot is too new to receive flood wait errors.
- My bot does not get enough traffic to receive flood wait errors.
- This feature of my bot is not used enough to receive flood wait errors.
- My bot leaves enough time between API calls so it will not receive flood wait errors.
- This particular method call cannot receive flood wait errors.
- `getMe` cannot receive flood wait errors.
- `getUpdates` cannot receive flood wait errors.

> All of these things are wrong.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All of these are wrong.
```

Let's get to the things we _do_ know.

> ## Safe Assumptions About Rate Limits

Reviewer: Preposition here.

```suggestion
## Safe Assumptions about Rate Limits
```

Author: Words with 4+ letters are capitalised, no?

Reviewer: Where did we agree on this?

Author: I don't remember ever doing it differently. Check all 9999+ occurrences of _With_.

Reviewer: And I don’t remember agreeing on doing it like that. It should be wrong tho.

Author: There are several rule systems suggesting this. Looking at https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Title_case, at least the AP Stylebook as well as APA Style mention this.

Also, it's KnorpelSenf style ®️. I find it ugly when long words are lowercased. I'm always doing it that way.

If you want, we can add a section about language style to the contribution guide. We can keep that as a reference for ourselves to come back to during reviews. Besides our own rules for title case, it should also contain other implicit style recommendations:
- source code comment format
- which words to include in hyperlinks
- where to apply title case

I want to emphasise that these rules are not meant as something we should enforce from others. Few people feel as strongly about such things as the two of us do, and it will easily be perceived as petty if we were to make others follow this document. However, we can use it for ourselves when other contributors have delivered high-quality content.

Reviewer: I didn’t knew AP said that.

Reviewer: Yes, we need to rethink this and write down everything somewhere. The limits of my brain make this annoying.

Reviewer: Let’s leave it as-is.

> From the [Bot FAQ](https://core.telegram.org/bots/faq#my-bot-is-hitting-limits-how-do-i-avoid-this), we know a few limits that cannot be exceeded, ever.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the [bot FAQ](https://core.telegram.org/bots/faq#my-bot-is-hitting-limits-how-do-i-avoid-this), we know a few limits that cannot be exceeded, ever.
```

Author: Inconsistent with how we refer to it in our FAQ. Inconsistent with how https://core.telegram.org/bots/api refers to it.

Reviewer: If you want to go with Bot FAQ, you gotta remove the article.

Author: Why? I'm comparing it to a name, such as **the United States**.

Reviewer: I had something in my train of thoughts, but it just crashed. I’m also confused. I don’t trust in how Telegram refers to it anyway. Maybe this needs a little more thinking by me.

Author: Telegram docs often make mistakes with articles, but even the top of https://core.telegram.org/bots/api can be read my way

Reviewer: We can go with that now so the PQ is not blocked any further.

1. _"When sending messages inside a particular chat, avoid sending more than one message per second. We may allow short bursts that go over this limit, but eventually you'll begin receiving 429 errors."_

>    This one should be pretty clear. The auto-retry plugin will handle things for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This one should be pretty clear. The auto-retry plugin handles this for you.
```

2. _"If you're sending bulk notifications to multiple users, the API will not allow more than 30 messages per second or so. Consider spreading out notifications over large intervals of 8—12 hours for best results."_

   **This only applies to bulk notifications,** i.e. if you proactively message many users.

>    If you are just responding to messages from users, then it is no problem to send 1000 messages per second or more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If you are just responding to messages from users, then it is no problem to send 1,000 or more messages per second.
```

>    When the Bot FAQ says that you should _"consider spreading out notifications over large intervals"_ then this does not mean that you should add any artificial delays.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   When the bot FAQ says that you should _"consider spreading out notifications over large intervals"_, it does not mean that you should add any artificial delays.
```

Author: ```suggestion
   When the Bot FAQ says that you should _"consider spreading out notifications over large intervals"_, it this does not mean that you should add any artificial delays.
```
?

Reviewer: Sure.

   Instead, the main takeaway here is that sending bulk notifications is a process that will take many hours.
   You cannot expect to message all users instantly at the same time.

3. _"Also note that your bot will not be able to send more than 20 messages per minute to the same group."_

>    Again, pretty clear. Completely unrelated to bulk notifications or how many messages are sent in the group. And yet again, the auto-retry plugin will take care of this for you.

Reviewer 2: Why are there three sentences on one line?
```suggestion
   Again, pretty clear.
   Completely unrelated to bulk notifications or how many messages are sent in the group.
   And yet again, the auto-retry plugin will take care of this for you.
```

Author: It's cause I'm dumb

## Throttling

> Some people think that it is bad to run into rate limits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some think that it is bad to run into rate limits.
```

They prefer to know the exact limits so they can throttle their bot.

> This is wrong.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is not right.
```

Author: I would like to make strong statement, this is too polite

Author: How about _false_ or _incorrect_?

Reviewer: incorrect

Author: ```suggestion
This is incorrect.
```

> Rate limits are a useful tool for flood control, and if you respect them, this will have no negative consequences for your bot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rate limits can be seen as a tool useful for flood control, and if you act accordingly, they won't have any negative impacts on your bot.
```

Author: “can be seen as” is incorrect for the TG Bot API because they are the singular tool to deal with this issue. This is not subjective.

I agree with the rest. How about this?

```suggestion
Rate limits are a tool useful for flood control, and if you act accordingly, they won't have any negative impacts on your bot.
```

Although “acting accordingly” sounds like we need to follow some rules in order to not insult someone. It feels a little off for “following API specifications.”

Reviewer: Go with that.
